	In the beginning of the film, you see a little abandoned boy named Zawana who is homeless running around. The monastery in the movie takes him in, and the head monk Abbot is the one who takes him in. This monastery lives off of donations, so you see the monks going around in their village to get food. Zawana exchanges a “love note” to a girl, and later on Abbot finds out about this and tells Zawana that he must tell him everything he wants to go to the village. One of the older novices later wants to go to another monastery in Yangon because he doesn’t want to live off of donations and feels like Abbot is too strict. He asks Zawana to come, and he is hesitant because everyone says that he should be grateful that Abbot took him in. Zawana says yes at first, but backs out last minute. Later on Abbot is worried about the monastery closing with no one to look after it. The guy next to him says Zawana would be an ideal candidate if he elects to stay there. Abbot becomes sick so they him and Zawana go to Yangon. Before they do that, they gather donations for a surgery that Abbot requires. Then they reach there and Abbot is given medication. While Abbot is in the hospital, Zawana is out exploring the city with that girl and one of her boy friends. It is revealed that Abbot has cancer, and so they cut his balls off. Zawana keeps his balls in order to help raise awareness about Abbot’s situation in order to raise donations. The ending of the movie is with everyone praying, and just before that, Abbot fading out.		One of Buddhist themes that comes up in the beginning of the movie is that you are not allowed to have a girlfriend or be in a relationship with a member of the opposite sex. This is when Zawana gives a note to a girl while gathering donations. Abbot finds out and restricts Zawana from going to the village again without his permission. Later, the girls mom comes into the monastery to donate food, and gives Zawana something secret from Abbot. This is a note, and Abbot finds out about it. Abbot says that he shouldn’t get to close with the women in the village because it will distract him from being a monk. Also when the girl offers to do anything in order to help Abbot, Zawana pushed her away which I think meant that he is not going to give up Buddhism for a girl. Abbot has taught him well, and he knows that this will produce good merit. He doesn’t do it for the sole purpose of good merit, he also does it for Abbot, the man who raised him and took him in, health. Another Buddhist theme in the movie is the part with donations. When Abbot becomes sick, Zawana and another man go asking for donations. When people donate, the man says that if you donate, good things will happen to you so that is a recurring theme. This act of generosity produces good merit which is really good in Buddhism. Zawana takes this even further when he keeps Abbot’s testicles in order to receive more donations. He feels that if more people understand the situation at hand, the more likely they are to donate, but Abbot orders him to just toss his testicles into the river because he has come to terms with his cancer.Adit Patel	The Monk Review	Section 1