An individual's behavior is influenced by a number of factors. Many acknowledge the influence that genetics, as well as the environment one was raised in, as important factors in influencing a person’s behavior. However, Malcolm Gladwell discusses a third influential part of one's behavior in her book, “The Power of Context. In his book, Gladwell describes something he refers to as The Power of Context. This force is described as the situation and environment surrounding the individual. He describes how things as miniscule as graffiti can create an environment that influences crime. He describes many man-made environments that create a Power of Context influencing individuals in the situation. Susan Faludi’s “The Naked Citadel,” Jean Twenge’s “An Army of One: Me,” and Walker Percy’s “A Loss of a Creature,” are other works that describe man-made environments and the individuals in those environments. While Gladwell describes the Power of Context in man-made environments like New York City, he fails to describe what kind of effect natural environments have on people. Percy, as well as Jon Krakauer’s “Into the Wild,” describe individuals in natural environments. With those two works in mind, one can examine the effects of the context created by natural environments. The Power of Context has a negative influence on individuals when in man-made environments.
	Man-made environments often rob people of their sovereignty. Specifically, man-made refers to environments that are influenced or created by man. These environments often have factors that can deeply affect people in a number of ways. Percy describes how these man-made factors can rob people of their sovereignty and turn people into consumers. He describes how someone who experiences with sovereignty is able to experience things objectively and see them for what they truly are. However, many man-made environments can obstruct one's experience. It may influence the way an individual experiences and thus rob them of their sovereignty. Percy describes how merely partaking in a tour of the Grand Canyon can likely take away a persons sovereignty. The sightseer is “more than just sensitive to changes in context, [they are] exquisitely sensitive to them.” (Gladwell 140) While the tour may seem insignificant and just a method of arriving at the location, it is really what prevents the sightseer from achieving sovereignty. The complex created by the tour may influence the sightseer to, “instead of looking looking at [the Grand Canyon,] photograph it.” (Percy 6) Because of this, the sovereignty of the “present is surrendered to the past and future.” The sightseer becomes unable to objectively view the Grand Canyon because of the environment surrounding him. Another man made environment is school. Percy describes students at Harvard reading a sonnet. He explains how they struggle to take in the sonnet and understand it. This is because the “sonnet is obscured by the symbolic package which is formulated not by the sonnet itself but by the media through which the sonnet is transmitted.” (39) This “media” is apart of the man-made environment and is what robs the student of his sovereignty. The media includes things like the classroom, the teacher, the lesson, and even the pages of the book. These are the “little things” that ‘the power of context says [are] what really matters.”(Gladwell 150) The many parts of the environment are what alter the persons view. These little factors create contexts that prevent people from experiencing with sovereignty.
	Man-made environments can turn people into narcissists. Twenge describes narcissists as being “overly focused on themselves and lacking empathy for others”. (774) They believe that they are superior to other individuals and feel entitled to desired scenarios.  This method of thinking is often the result of the context created by man-made environments.  In these environments, individuals are in a position where they are important or valued.  However, they become narcissistic because nothing is backing their position.  While some individuals have experiences and accomplishments to back their feelings of self-importance, narcissists often do not. A man named Philip Zimbardo performed an experiment at Stanford University where he simulated a prison. Half of the participants in the experiment became guards while the other half became prisoners. Because of the context, “the guards, some of whom  had previously identified themselves as pacifists, fell quickly into the role of hard-bitten disciplinarians.”(Gladwell 161) The guards were just given the role of authority. The achieved power without earning or working towards it. Their environments put them in a position where they feel important without any accomplishments. Due to it just being handed to them, they began to become narcissistic as they believed they deserved such power. The context gave them the idea that they were superior and deserved the position of authority. An environment that blindly placing importance on a person often leads to that person becoming narcissistic. This result is also often observed in schools teaching self-esteem.  Many schools began teaching children the importance of self-esteem.  While this is not a problem in itself, the execution is flawed.  Instead of teaching children to genuinely like themselves, the schools teach the children to feel good about themselves for no good reason.  The schools create an environment where the students are “special just because”. (Twenge 766)  The schools use activities that praise the children while also avoiding criticizing the student.  While they are trying to promote self-esteem, the children just become narcissistic.  The student’s narcissistic “behavior is a function of social context”. (Gladwell 159)  Things as small as a “Be a Winner Self-Esteem Coloring and Activity Book” (Twenge 764), can create narcissistic individuals. These small activities focused on self esteem pass on the ideas of narcissism to the children. Environments that lead and individual to believe they are important without reason cause them to become narcissistic.
	Man-made environments can bring out the darkness in people, driving them towards violence and crime. When subjected to the Power of Context, individuals can develop narcissism, “one of the few personality traits that psychologists agree is completely negative”. (Twenge 774)  The environment around individuals can drag out negative traits like narcissism.  In a militaristic school called The Citadel, most cadets attending become narcissistic.  They are a close-knit group being trained to become men, something The Citadel believes is extremely important.  Because they are in a close and supposedly very important group, they become narcissistic.  However, unlike the school children, it goes deeper than that.  The cadets at The Citadel become extremely violent and aggressive.  While “narcissists [can often] lash out aggressively, when they are insulted or rejected” (Twenge 776), there is another cause, something that may be more influential.  Gladwell states that, according to the Power of Context, a “criminal … is actually someone acutely sensitive to his environment, who is alert to all kinds of cues, and who is prompted to commit crimes based on his perception of the world around him.” (150)  An individual may be influenced to commit a crime by the graffiti covered city he resides in.  A similar result is seen in the Citadel.  The cadets are driven towards violence and aggression by the environment created by The Citadel.  More specifically, the environment is created as a result of the Citadel’s four class system.  It is likely that the “Citadel’s four class system bred such behavior” (Faludi 86).  It is a system where the upperclassmen have a good amount of authority over the newly admitted knobs.  However, the upperclassmen were expected to be fierce and strict.  There is a “strict rule that upperclassmen not fraternize with knobs”.  (Faludi 86) This creates an environment where the upperclassmen exercise their authority harshly, strictly and violently.  There are examples of where “a place kicker had his head dunked in water twenty times until he was unconscious.” (Faludi 86) The strict and harsh man-made environment created a context that caused cadets to act very violent, especially upperclassmen.  Also, the number of aggressive actions spread due to the Broken Windows theory.  An example of this theory is a scenario where “[if] a window is broken, and left unrepaired, people walking by will conclude that no one cares and … [soon] more windows will be broken down.” (Gladwell 155).  As knobs and other cadets witness and hear of these violent acts, they find that it was pretty much allowed.  The cadets conclude that “[harassment’s] standard operating procedure” (Faludi 86) and no one cares to stop it.  Because of these factors, a violent and strict environment is created in a man-made Citadel.
	Natural environments can free people from the constraints of man-made environments.  In man-made environments, people’s behavior and identity are altered.  Factors in man-made environments “like graffiti and fare-beating” act as “Tipping Points” (Gladwell 164) which push individuals towards violence and crime.  The environments “[turn] someone in that particular moment into a different person.”  Man-made environments often produce negative effects in individuals.  It can turn people violent or change someone into a consumer.  These results, however, are often the result of environments influenced or produced by men.  Purely natural environments can free people from man-made environment’s influence.  Natural environments often lack the environmental factor that corrupt and change people.  Percy describes how a tourist visiting the Grand Canyon can recover his sovereignty “by leaving the beaten track.”  In other words, the tourist “[avoids] all the facilities for seeing the Grand Canyon.” (Percy 9)  The individual keeps the sovereignty by avoiding the man-made environment that would otherwise take it away.  He sees the canyon without being influenced by the context created by the tour. Another example Percy provides is the sonnet, which, when taught in a classroom, becomes difficult to understand due to the educational package formed.  However, Percy also explains that someone who is “walking along a beach and spying a dead dogfish and going to work on it with his jackknife has, in a fashion wholly unprovided in modern educational theory, a great advantage over the Scarsdale high-school pupil who finds the dogfish on his laboratory desk.” (38)  The one who stumbled across the dogfish avoids the context of the school.  He is able to examine it objectively in an unobstructed environment.  While the student may form an educational package around the dogfish due to the context in which it was presented, the other does not.  He reads the sonnet in its purest form, unaffected by the outside environmental factors.  A man named Chris McCandless realized the powerful effect that man-made environments were having on his life.  He decided to leave civilization and live in the Alaskan wilderness for a few months.  He decided to “no longer be poisoned by the civilization he flees.”  (Krakouer 207)  He traveled to the wilderness to purge himself of the influences of man-made environments.  He even gave himself a new name.  While unknown, it could be possible that he believes he will become a new person when free from the Power of Context’s influence.  In the wild, there is no corrupting influence produced by environmental factors found in man-made environments.  
	People are often greatly influence by their surroundings. The context of their surroundings can contribute greatly to a person’s actions and behavior. What tends to cause the greatest impact to a person’s behavior is man-made environments. These surroundings can even have a negative effect on individuals. It can turn people violent and narcissistic. It changes people’s way of thinking in the moment. However, natural environments provide a haven free of these influential factors. The natural environments lack the elements of man-made environments that negatively affect people. While man-made environments promote negative qualities, natural environments help people escape those negative attributes.